Jabbot2 Architecture.

/ ($BOT_HOME)

/agent (agent bots)
	irc.pl
	ournet.pl
	bbsagent.pl

/func ($FUNC_BOT_HOME) (functional bots)
       google.pl  (google bot)
       message.pl (message bot)
       game.pl    (game bot)

The 'agent bot' is only a messaging agent of human (on IRC or
something) to functional bots. Each functional bot must follow the
protocol (see Protocol.txt) to introduce itself to the agent bot. The
agent bot then has a mechanism to retrieve information of every
functional bots at RUNTIME, so that the update of a bot need not to be
offline, since it can be partially updated.

Bots may be run under two kinds of mode, the batch mode and daemon
mode. A batch mode bot doesn't run until it's triggered, called by
some other bots or something. The communication channel between a
batch mode and it's caller may be an unnamed pipe, or some pre-defined
file. A daemon mode bot is like a stand-alone server program, opening
a communication channel to talk with somebody else. The implementation
of such channel is platform-dependent. On traditional UNIX systems,
bots may use a AF_UNIX socket as it's communication channel. To be
more distributed, bots may open a TCP socket as it's communication
channel, so that it can server other bots via Internet.Some
Authentication/Access control mechinism defined by bot's maintainer
should be implemented to prevent malicious attacks.

Generally, bots that use more memories to cache data on disk may be in
daemon mode, or ,statistically, bots are less called might be in batch
mode, since we want to maximize the performance of these bots.

Daemon mode bots must have the ability of multi-tasking. Since
requests comes at random. (Hence one daemon mode bot may have
several process running simultaneously.)


Have fun,
Kang-min Liu <gugod@gugod.org>

